I’ve been reluctant to voice this publicly for a while, but here’s to having the courage to share an opinion…

I don’t think AI is anything to worry about.

If all you wanted was rage-bait, I gave you that right at the top. If you’re interested in reading nuance, feel free to keep reading.

# Technology Happens
This has happened before. Not so long ago, computers weren’t a thing that fit in the palm of your hand, and 2” tape was easier to record on. If you were going to record to tape and do anything with an entertainment career, in the US you HAD to live in one of three cities - New York, Los Angeles, and to a much lesser extent Nashville (when I was growing up, Nashville only meant country and blues).

Technology democratized all of this, of course. A ton of little red “Scarlet” boxes exist, plugged into laptops and iPads all over the world.  Some people don’t even use that, just micro controllers!

With access increasing, jobs also increased. In the 90s, there were a microscopic number of dedicated game composers and/or sound designers. All of the people working in film, again, lived in Los Angeles or New York. Today, we not only have a comparative explosion of people working explicitly in audio for games - but we have professionals niching into specific game types, genres, and feelings. This isn’t something that would be possible without the proliferation of technology.

In my perspective, AI is another loop of this same story.  Like it or not, the ability to create sound is again going to be easier. If you’re in your 20’s, you’re about to start getting into the place where you formulate your version of “Nobody plays instruments anymore!  They just hit play in Ableton!” that you hear from the “boomers”.  “Nobody makes cool sounds anymore!  They just type a prompt!”

# Jobs Will Change
I don’t know how - and we can speculate all day, but jobs will be different. As I said, we don’t have tape machine operators anymore. We barely even have “studio techs” anymore - you know, the guys who run the boards or the complicated Pro Tools Rigs or create a mess of wires on patch bays (we make the wire mess for FUN now and call it modular synthesis).

“But Adam I thought you said we don’t have anything to worry about???  Aren’t you saying I’m going to lose my job???”

I believe two things are likely going to be true at the same time - the job of people making sounds and music today are going to look different in 10 years, and that you absolutely have the ability to flex with the future requests of jobs. As we saw from my earlier point - increased access brings increased specialization with it.  Those who continue to specialize into _profitable realms_ will be fine. I can’t tell you that if you like making sound for cozy indie games that said genre is going to be raking in money for lots of people making sounds in 10 years. Honestly, I don’t know what will be paying then, but I’m _highly confident_ in your ability to figure it out (and also our collective ability to complain that it’s not exactly what we want and that it was all better “back in the day”)

# Nobody is Banking on “Enshittification”
I also think what we’re seeing in AI and chatbots is a bubble somewhat equivalent to the “dot com boom” of the 90’s.  The weird thing now is that tech mega corps which didn’t exist then can bankroll all this for a while until they just use it as feature sets in their existing applications. So, LLM tech isn’t going away.

But, a thing we all seem to agree on, is that work made by chatbots is extremely derivative of existing works and not “good”. I think this will result in three things:

1. The speed at which internet content is created and posted is going to (already becoming) even more insane
2. Said works are going to become increasingly low-effort terrible
3. The general public and kids won’t care - this stuff will become super popular

But, this already happens today. We _always_ follow the leader.  At one time, again, people didn’t make music on phones or laptops. They didn’t “cheat” or use samples or whatever we complain about. But, one person came along and made something the kids thought was dope, and everybody copied it into the ground.

It’ll happen again, with a chatbot. It has probably already happened. This is what we do.

I don’t worry about this, because there’s plenty of room for people to flex in their work, in how they work, and move to the next era of making entertainment. It’s not going to look like it did - because it never does.

*MAKE THE ARGUMENT ABOUT PROGRAMMERS AND CODE NOT WORKING OUT*

# So What Are We to Do?
Well, for starters - don’t stick your head in the sand. I know of people avoiding AI chatbot usage out of principle. I’m _all for_ your personal principles and morals, my friends… no hate from me. I’m just going to posit the argument that if you don’t give yourself any exposure to the enemy whatsoever - you won’t know what you’re dealing with.

I say this to folks all the time - AI is a great party trick, but it often completely sucks in practical application.

It’s EASY to find content online made with a chatbot that looks mind blowing.  Realistic video, images, sounds, text, etc.

But every time I try and recreate this for serious works, my exposure cycle to whatever new AI is getting released looks like this:

1. I’m stunned at the marketing examples
2. I may be equally impressed by something a human made
3. I log in and type prompts
4. I’m impressed with the first iteration getting 80% of the way there
5. Further refinements turn out worse, I bash my head against the wall trying to jump the gap to get what I want
6. I try again, and repeat 3-5
7. I see that the hyper-specificity required to prompt engineer well is just as much work as actually creating code or text or whatever.
8. I use the AI to potentially give me a starting point, but don’t rely on it to make the complete work

If you never exposed yourself to it, you’d never see this, and it would make sense that you’d assume the worst.  The places where AI works best for me are in learning, and thought processing (I’m a verbal or written thinker and often need someone to bounce off of). In creating, though, I always get into the above frustration loop. I always need to do something to modify the product it creates for me.

This problem is actively being replicated (with serious fear) in AI-developed applications now (colloquially called vibe coding). People who don’t really know how to develop programs are using chat bots to code their apps. The start of this is really impressive looking, often these folks can finagle them into working apps - which include security vulnerabilities and can run very poorly/slowly. Jokes are already beginning to form (which, I think are just reality) that there are going to be plenty of software developer jobs which are just taking poorly coded AI apps and fixing them.

Without a doubt, I think that will be a job sector. I also think that people who want to make movies and games commercially will be able to run into a similar problem. You won’t be able to fire all of your designers and artists and code a spectacular, deeply immersive and complex game with _zero_ exposure and experience to a wide variety of areas.  Will team size shrink because designers and artists can use AI as leverage for speed and iterating? Absolutely. I also bet more, smaller teams will be bankrolled by megacorp publishers.  There’s a huge possibility in my mind that game development, for example, turns into the record label gold rush of the 1990’s - big companies bankrolling lots of artists (development teams) for hits and derivative hits.








Here’s your game audio 2025 “best chances to get involved with AAA companies” cheat code (in order):

> The information below exists in a vacuum and won’t “get you a job”.  You might 
> not even ***want*** a job in AAA.  There may not even be an _available_ job in 
> AAA.  However, IMO, this is the shortest-and-sweetest version of my answer to 
> “how do I find a job/get noticed/etc. etc.” that I have.  Thank you for 
> noticing this notice.

# Make Friends and “Network”
Talk to people in person and/or online. DMs if you’re not local to a game dev hub city (Seattle, LA, Vancouver, Montreal, etc), meetups if you are.

# Learn Audiokinetic Wwise
If you don’t know Wwise, it’s like not knowing a DAW in AAA gaming. There are other options like MetaSounds and FMOD, but Wwise still owns the majority of the AAA market.

# Make a terrible Unreal 5 demo game
Yes, complete a full “make a craptastic game in Unreal 5” tutorial on YouTube. Make a simple game, make it bad, make it for you. Learn other parts of game development a little bit. And every AAA is asking for Unreal 5/Blueprints experience right now, so it’s worth learning.

# Keep your pracitce up
If you’re not employed or have a day job, make redesigns you find fun and enjoyable. No more than 3-5 seconds (ie: redesign a spell or a gunshot) and not a whole scene. Post them to LinkedIn. If you’re not having fun with it and it’s not making you laugh or get pumped, you’re doing it wrong. If you’re a programmer, do programmer-y things (ie: build stuff) have fun, and show it off, too.
